# First-Year-Car-Game
Code for a car game written in C++, submitted as an end-of-year project. 

In the final version of the program, various features were fully implemented, including full collision detection, two types of camera controls, a rival car, and displayed race positions. 
To start, the game has full collisions for every asset the player car can interact with, including the walls, isles, checkpoints, borders and the rival car. Using the SetPosition command  to set the player car to the position of the previous frame, and reversing its momentum gives it a ‘bounce’ like action in the same direction it hit the asset at. Additionally, collisions are used to detect whether both cars have crossed a checkpoint (using point to box collisions) and if they have hit a certain path dummy. Both are key in working out which car is in ‘first place’ and which is in second.
As well as the direction keys moving the car, the player’s directional movement uses vectors to imitate a drifting motion when it turns. This is achieved by normalising facing vectors retrieved from the player car’s matrix. Using the thrust, calculated from an acceleration counter, as well as the drag and the momentum, which is a combination of the normalized facing vectors and the drag vectors, the car is able to move in a specific direction with an increasing speed.
An additional feature of the game is the option of keyboard camera control or mouse-based camera control. Using a Boolean and basing the movement on the game timer, the player is able to select their preferred option at any point during the game.
The boost function also works based on a Boolean and the game’s timer . 

Initially, the boost function (canThrust) is set to true, so the player can boost from the beginning of the race.  The player’s maximum thrust is doubled while the boost button is held and gradually decreases whenever released. It can function for up to three seconds before it enters an ‘overheating’ state, which requires a five second cooldown. During this time, canThrust becomes false and the feature cannot be used.
Another feature of the game is its restart button, which resets every vital part of the race back to its origins. For example, both cars are set to their original game states and positions, the thrust and momentum is reset to zero, and so are the lap and checkpoint counters. Effectively, the game becomes very similar to how it started.
A health bar was also added to the player car. Displayed in the top corner, maximum health is decreased by one with every collision excluding collisions with the rival car, which removes five from the total health. As a new ‘health state’ is entered, the colour of the text changes to denote the severity of the damage taken. If this damage counter hits zero, the game ends and the rival car automatically wins. 
Laps and race positions are displayed along with the health state in the top corner. The lap counters for each car are increased upon every crossing of the first checkpoint. Upon completing a lap, both cars’ times are displayed on screen. This was achieved by applying specific game times to each car and adding to the time upon each completed circuit. Positions were not based on timers however, rather they are based on the amount of checkpoint collisions and the distances between dummies placed in a specific path, (the path of which is followed by the rival car).

As a result of these features, as well as various others, the “First classification (70% +) Milestone 4” objectives were met, and thus a similar grade is expected.
